Drug	Drug Class or Action	Phenotype	Dosage Information	Category	Interpretation	Notes	References
Tacrolimus	Immunosuppressant	CYP3A5 Normal metabolizer	Increase dosage of tacrolimus	ATYPICAL	This result indicates that the patient carries two functional copies of CYP3A5. Patients with this genotype typically require increased doses of tacrolimus.	Blood concentrations of tacrolimus are strongly influenced by CYP3A5 genotype. In many populations, absence of functional CYP3A5 (poor metabolizer) is the most common phenotype. Patients with a normal or intermediate metabolizer phenotype will generally require an increased dose of tacrolimus to achieve therapeutic drug concentrations, followed by therapeutic drug monitoring. Tacrolimus has a narrow therapeutic index. Too low a dose may increase the risk of transplant rejection, while too high a dose may increase risk of toxicity, including nephrotoxicity, hypertension, neurotoxicity, and hyperglycemia. (Birdwell_2015) Additional information can be found at https://www.pharmgkb.org/gene/PA131/guideline/PA166124619.	Birdwell_2015
Tacrolimus	Immunosuppressant	CYP3A5 Intermediate metabolizer	Increase dosage of tacrolimus	ATYPICAL	This result indicates that the patient carries one functional and one non-functional copy of CYP3A5. Patients with this genotype typically require increased doses of tacrolimus.	Blood concentrations of tacrolimus are strongly influenced by CYP3A5 genotype. In many populations, absence of functional CYP3A5 (poor metabolizer) is the most common phenotype. Patients with a normal or intermediate metabolizer phenotype will generally require an increased dose of tacrolimus to achieve therapeutic drug concentrations, followed by therapeutic drug monitoring. Tacrolimus has a narrow therapeutic index. Too low a dose may increase the risk of transplant rejection, while too high a dose may increase risk of toxicity, including nephrotoxicity, hypertension, neurotoxicity, and hyperglycemia. (Birdwell_2015) Additional information can be found at https://www.pharmgkb.org/gene/PA131/guideline/PA166124619.	Birdwell_2015
Tacrolimus	Immunosuppressant	CYP3A5 Poor metabolizer	Standard dosage of tacrolimus	STANDARD			
